how would you estimate the size of the
paint market
in the u.s
[Music]
hey everyone welcome back to another
exponent product management mock
interview
we're going to be doing an estimation
question today with selena
so before we get into it selena do you
mind telling the audience a little bit
about yourself
yeah for sure and thanks for having me
um hey everyone i'm selena shang and i'm
a product manager at google i've been
there about
two years now and prior to that i was in
apm at yahoo
cool so like i mentioned we're doing an
estimation question
so let's dive into it how would you
estimate
the size of the paint market in the u.s
how would you estimate the size of the
pink market
in the u.s awesome
i think my google docs is lagging a
little bit all right here we go
um sure so i'm assuming that this will
mean
how much people are spending on paint uh
in a given year in the us
um and if that's true uh there's you
know
just brainstorming out loud there's a
few different channels
that you know people might be buying
paint for one might be for houses
you know buildings in general um so
residential
industrial things like that um another
one i can think of
are vehicles so like painting your car
painting trucks
um and the likes um and then maybe a
last one
would be things like you know art
supplies like i'm sure you remember when
you're k
through 12 you probably have to do some
sort of painting project
growing up and you know there's also
hobbyists that enjoy painting
um does that make sense so far yeah
that's a pretty good spectrum to start
with cool so i think like for the
purpose
of this exercise um my my gut says that
i think we should focus
on residential buildings industrial
buildings and vehicles to start because
if you think about all the vehicles and
all the buildings in the world
or in the us and then you think about
how many people in those buildings and
vehicles might be painting i think the
scale of all the buildings and
things like that would dwarf art
supplies but if we come to the end and
feel like the estimate is off like
i think we can revisit that um so
at a really high level if we take some
unit
of paint say like a can of paint um cans
of paint
to find the total market we want to see
how many cans of paint are being
used per year and multiply that out by
how much
a can of paint
in general and so i'm just given that
high level equation
again we have buildings that are
residential
buildings that are industrial
are more commercial and then like
vehicles so
let's break it down a little bit more
starting with residential we know that
there's about 300
million people in the u.s and given that
there are about three people per
household let's say that there's about
100 million
houses in the us
and so if we're thinking about how much
paint is needed to paint
all the houses in the us we should also
keep in mind that not every single house
is going to need paint every single year
and so if you imagine like you know over
the course of
a house's lifetime um painting is not
really a regular thing like you hope
that you know you do it one you do it
nicely one time and it'll last you
like a good amount of time so let's say
for now like maybe you paint a house
every 10 years so
um if that's true there are 10 million
houses per year
that are needing paint so is your
assumption here that
for every household they're going to be
in a house
um for every household who's going to be
in a house every household in the u.s
lives in a house is that your assumption
yeah and so by house i should say just
like in general like residential
building it could be apartment it could
be a house and
of course some houses are bigger than
others um if we were to divide this a
little more we could go by geography
city size um and get a little bit more
granular but
yeah for now let's assume just like it's
a residential building
yeah that sounds good just wanted to
clarify yeah thanks for clarifying
all right um cool so let's say like 10
million houses per year need paint
and if i think about like the average
size house like again some are bigger
some are smaller
you know generally you need a bathroom
say like two bedrooms
a living room and a kitchen um say on
average
for like a small family and so that's
five rooms and um
based on experience i think you can
basically use one can of paint
per you know reasonably sized room and
so if you do one can of paint per room
uh and then also assume that we're
painting the outside of the house
um that would be double so about 10 cans
of paint per house
multiplying that out that's a hundred
million cans of pancreas eventually
and yeah to your point let's uh let's
get to the end and then revisit to see
if this was granular enough
all right so if there are no questions
there um for industrial
i think we can use a similar approach um
you know there's some population in the
us
and um and uh
there are a given amount of industrial
buildings to service
these people um and so i think unlike
a home um you know more commercial
buildings
aren't turning over for paint jobs every
single year because like the
construction is
a bigger deal like when they're built
it's like you know hopefully built to
last
a longer amount of time so let's assume
that
it's every actually 20 years
20 years needing
paint and so that translates to five
million
large buildings if we assume the same
population
and then you know this is just you know
a rough estimation
i'm thinking like right now i'm
picturing sort of like downtown mountain
view where i am like downtown livermore
um where i grew up and you know they're
not skyscrapers but
they're like sizable buildings with
multiple stories that like have a few
restaurants and
you know again like we could divide by
geographies for like a new york
versus like a suburb where i grew up but
for now let's assume that
it's about um 10x
rebuilding for 10x the size of the house
and like this again will vary
greatly but just to sort of uh put the
thought process down
um all right so then if we use the same
approach that's going to be
um the number of residential
uh residential cans of paint and just
build this i don't lose it
um times 10 which is
so basically a billion can pay
for industrial buildings
already
um so then the last bucket we have here
are vehicles
and so using a similar approach um
you know not everyone has a car some
people have more than one car
um but if we again base it on like the
number of households and go from there
um 100 million households um
let's say that um on average when i say
vehicles like it's going to include
trucks and buses and bikes and so all
the modes of transportation that might
need painting
um and so i'd say it's safe to say like
people have one car
and like maybe one other vehicle that
they take advantage of whether it's a
bus or a bike
or something so let's say like two
vehicles in general
um are are being leveraged per household
and again this would vary by you know
geography and demographic
and so um when i think about the size of
a room versus the size of a car
um let's say like you know one car would
take
about a can of paint as well um because
like you have to do like many many coats
um and you know uh it's
you want to make sure that the the
quality is pretty good for your
for your car so one can per vehicle
and then that would come out to be 200
million cans of paint
okay cool so now we have like a rough
estimate
of how many cans of paint we would need
for vehicles and buildings in general
and so if we add that up to get the
total number of
paint cans
that's going gonna be i'm just gonna
keep it in millions for now
oh and then um based off of my
experience just going to like
kelly moore and that sort of those sorts
of stores um cans of
paint like maybe are about like twenty
dollars per can
so if we multiply that out um i'm going
to use some scientific notation to help
me with
my zeros here um
that's gonna be about 26
billion dollars i'll pause there in case
you have questions on
how i got here and then i'll sort of
give you my thoughts on how we
on what this number means and how i feel
about it yeah
um this makes sense broadly do you mind
scrolling up a little bit
so i'm looking at the top and it says um
approximately five rooms per house is
that
ten cans is that for covering all five
rooms
yeah covering all five rooms so we're
assuming um
one can covers the square footage
needed for one room but then you know
you're also painting like the exterior
of the house or for each room you know
there are walls on the outside and the
roof
and so i'm just like approximating like
you just double the surface area on the
outside
for now okay got it yep that makes sense
um sure yeah so i'd love to hear if you
think this final
answer is an overestimate or
underestimate or if it's just about
right
yeah um looking at it i think orders of
magnitude
it's probably okay like i don't think
paint is 100 billion
dollar business like a google or
facebook might be um i do think maybe
it's
a factor of two off i could see um the
size
for example the size of industrial
buildings on average could actually be
much higher
um given that in in major cities
skyscrapers are like much
bigger than 10x the size of a house so i
would want to revisit that
um and then i think if i were to revisit
um say the um
like the the demographics and like you
know geographical makeup
um it might end up to be a little bit
higher and sort of
going back to the arts and crafts thing
we were talking about earlier
i think it was okay to leave it out of
the estimation because when i think
about the scale of
you know tens of billions i don't again
i don't think the art
supply market would you know dwarf this
by an order of magnitude so i think it
was okay to leave it out for now
cool yeah um totally follow you along
and i think that this is a reasonable
answer
um i also agree with what you said about
maybe the skyscrapers might
fall under like that 80 20 rule where
there's probably only like 20 percent of
industrial buildings are skyscrapers but
those 20 percent of skyscrapers
maybe they're so big that they're 80 of
like how
much industrial paint uh that that
segment is
um all in all i love your answer i love
how you structured it i also loved
how in the beginning um you
segmented not only houses but you also
thought about cars and also arts and
supplies as a market
so um i think that there's there's
always like different ways to go about
answering these these types of questions
and i think the way you did it makes
sense
i'm wondering if you might have any tips
or advice for the audience if they were
to
come across an estimation question like
this
yeah definitely i think in general when
you're going through an estimation
question about revenue it's sort of
it's good to have a lay of the land for
some other companies and how big their
revenue is so when you get to the end
you're like okay great like i'm glad i
didn't get 150 billion because that
would be as big as
you know google um so that's one uh
that's one tip
and then i think um the second tip i
would give is
just up front making sure you take your
time to consider all the sources and
clarify with the interview
interviewer that that's what they have
in mind too because at the beginning you
get your sources and channels wrong or
you're forgetting a big one
um like that mistake is going to carry
through all the way so
those are my two bits of advice do you
have any advice on how
at the end how someone could validate
their answer and see if it's a if it's
just about right or if it's over
under what it should be yeah um so
kind of going back to the first bit it's
like hey i'm looking at this like from
an orders of magnitude
perspective like do i think it's
actually you know six billion on the
order of single-digit billions
do i think it's a hundred billion or
something between i think
um in this case i don't think it's as
small as one billion because that would
be
the size of like you know a meet like a
yahoo for example
um but i get i don't think it i don't
think the overall paint market is
as big as the google so that's sort of
the way i was approaching it
great cool um i think that's all we have
for today thanks so much selena for
coming on today's show and
covering this estimation question with
us and for the audience watching at home
good luck with your upcoming pm
interview
thanks so much for watching don't forget
to hit the like and subscribe buttons
below
to let us know that this video is
valuable for you and of course
check out hundreds more videos just like
this at tri-exponent dot com
thanks for watching and good luck on
your upcoming interview
[Music]